---
title: "Github + Hugo = Beautiful Blogs"
date: 2018-07-03T18:43:08+05:30
draft: false
---

I built this blog using Github pages, [Hugo](https://gohugo.io) and the [beautifulhugo](https://themes.gohugo.io/theme/beautifulhugo) theme. The most amazing part is that it’s free, minimalist, uses Markdown and you can get it running in no time! Also Hugo comes with Live-Reload enabled so you can simultaneously see the changes you make in your website.

Here’s a short tutorial on how I made this blog. Let’s get started!

**Note: If you are not interested to do the setup yourself, simply fork [my repo](https://github.com/vaibhavk/Blogs) and make the changes to include your details.**

### 1. Installing Hugo
We will be using Hugo as the site-generator to build our website. Hugo is written in Golang and requires to be installed in your system. So debian based systems can type in their terminal:  
{{< highlight bash >}}
        $ sudo apt install golang
{{< /highlight >}}
Now check the version using:
{{< highlight bash >}}
        $ go version
{{< /highlight >}}
Now we have to install hugo on our system for that, we'll use "go get" which will download and install package and it's dependencies for us. To do so follow:
{{< highlight terminal>}}
        $ export GOPATH=~/whatever-directory-you-want-for-project/
        $ go get github.com/magefile/mage
        $ go get -d github.com/gohugoio/hugo
        $ cd ${GOPATH:-$HOME/go}/src/github.com/gohugoio/hugo
        $ export PATH=$GOPATH/bin:$PATH
        $ mage vendor
        $ mage install
{{< /highlight >}}
Now our local setup is complete to run Hugo. Now we can head over to Github.

### 2. Github
For this step you should have a github account and git installed in your system. Then head over [here](https://github.com/new) to make a new repository for your blog. You can name it _anything_. Now you have to clone that repository using:
{{< highlight terminal >}}
$ git clone https://github.com/yourusername/repo-you-just-made.git && cd repo-you-just-made
{{< /highlight >}}
Now we can initialize hugo here. To do that:
{{< highlight terminal >}}
        $ hugo new site .
{{< /highlight >}}
Now we don't need **Public** folder in our git source code as it is generated by hugo for site building. To do that :
{{< highlight terminal >}}
        $ echo "Public/" > .gitignore
{{< /highlight >}}
Push your changes to Github using :
{{< highlight terminal >}}
        $ git add --all
        $ git commit -m "initial commit" -a
        $ git push -u origin master
{{< /highlight >}}

### 3. Theme
Now we'll use a theme, as this is how our blog will look like. You can use the theme I'm using [beautifulhugo](https://themes.gohugo.io/theme/beautifulhugo) or you can choose from [Hugo Themes](https://themes.gohugo.io), whichever you like as mostly procedure will remain the same. To add the theme :
{{< highlight terminal >}}
  $ git submodule add https://github.com/halogenica/beautifulhugo.git themes/beautifulhugo
{{< /highlight >}}

Now we need a config file, to do that we can copy the config file of the example site in themes.
{{< highlight terminal >}}
        $ cp themes/beautifulhugo/exampleSite/config.toml config.toml
{{< /highlight >}}

Now our basic site is almost ready. To see your progress you can do :
{{< highlight terminal >}}
        $ hugo serve -w
{{< /highlight >}}
And go to [localhost:1313](localhost:1313) on your browser.

You can see a lot of irrelevant stuff here. We need to update our config.toml file so that it matches your profile. You can take a reference from my [config.toml](https://gist.github.com/vaibhavk/2b17b4d0839d039fcb3f7837b09855b3)

You also need your own logo to be displayed here not the one provided by the theme. To do that make a directory img in static folder and copy the file there:
{{< highlight terminal >}}
        $ mkdir -p static/img
        $ cp /path-to-image static/img/avatar-icon.png
{{< /highlight >}}

Now we are good to go and write our very first Blog.

### 4. First Blog
We can use the Hugo to initialize our very first blog's file and edit it using:
{{< highlight terminal >}}
        $ hugo new post/first-blog.md
        $ vi content/!$
{{< /highlight >}}

Now you can write your blog here. When you complete your blog change _draft = true_ to _draft=false_ that you can on very first few lines.  
**Remember till you have _draft=true_ the page wouldn't be displayed in your website.**

Now check your site using :
{{< highlight terminal >}}
        $ hugo serve -w
{{< /highlight >}}

Now if you can deploy our site on github.

### 5. Github Again
Head back to github and create another repository with **yourusername.github.io** like I did _vaibhavk.github.io_ and clone it.
Now while you are in your **Blog's repository**. Check your website locally once again and then do :
{{< highlight terminal >}}
        $ hugo serve -w
        $ hugo -d /path-to-yourusername.github.io/
{{< /highlight >}}

Now all the content have been added ready to commit.
{{< highlight terminal >}}
        $ cd /path-to-yourusername.github.io
        $ git add --all
        $ git commit -m "rebuilding site `date`" -a
        $ git push origin master
{{< /highlight >}}

Go to _https://yourusername.github.io_ from your browser.

### 6. Conclusion

#### References
* [Horea's Blog](https://horeaporutiu.github.io/blog/how-to-blog-w/-hugo-and-github-pages/)
* [Hugo's Documentaion](https://gohugo.io/getting-started)

#### Closing Notes
Finally, the closing note! If you have any queries or constructive criticism, leave it out in the comments or feel free to email me at: vaibhavkaushik@disroot.org

Hope this blog post helps you! :)
